+ Spent the week going through a somewhat painful update from Unreal 5.4.4 to 5.5.4. My blame on it being Unreal has simmered as I found that I hit more issues that were either already in the build or things I've added in belief that it would fix the issues I was seeing from the upgrade.
+ Found a map change crash when objects are on fire. Traced it back to a build called `new new new fire`, I think the issue might be related to the recent fire update. Just a hunch.
+ Fixed crash. Crash was easy to fix, what wasn't was the new crash that crept in due to the cooker not including a gameplayeffect. 
+ Working on a html export of the .plan system so posts are public.
+ Created scripts to generate webpage version of .plan and rss feed.
+ Back on build stability bugs hoping to get 5.5.4 ready to merge with main.
+ Hopefully the last major issue from the 5.5.4 upgrade is fixing the account log on issues.
+ 5.5.4 is now main. Also, added meta tags to the plan so link embeds show the latest post.
+ Cleaned up console warning messages. Feels good. 
+ Working on updating the skelve generation system so layouts have more governance over what is spawned.
+ First public playtest of 5.5.4 build and it went much smoother than last week. One crash relating to saving actors on map change related to missing attribute data. Success overall.
+ Been back on the skelve generation system. Now uses a multipass format: Layout->Content->Block unused entrances. Allows for more passes to be added in future.
+ One big change to the updated skelve generator is layout validity. When attempting to generate a new chamber (level chunk) it tests the space using a box overlap to see if it will fit or reject. 
+ Wrote a SnapToCeiling command for UnrealEd. Why spend a few minutes moving actors, when you can spent a few hours writing and debugging a command. I can see it paying off in the future.
+ Testing an early version of the new Skelve generator. The phase based generation is in now: Layout, content, exit capping. I see some refactoring already that will help give more data that's needed. Next phase is tackling the biome shifting using height as a driver.
+ Test failed successfully. Levels failed to load on clients, I believe due to me using FlushLevelStreaming which stopped code from running until the level load was complete, but this pause caused client sync issues. The test gave us enough to think over things and present a new solution using OnLevelShown delegates to handle future updates, no need to pause code.
+ Added a chamber graph so we eventually spawn chambers with an understanding of their surroundings, helping build out logical spaces using rules instead of generating skelves using pure random items from a lightly filtered list.
+ Rewriting what was the POI spawning system, which I'm now calling the Chamber Props system. It spawns crafted scenes of actors at predefined locations in a skelve with the intention of looking appropriate to the surroundings. The goal is to craft a language using gameplaytags where these can be built independent of location and picked to spawn based on the applied tags. 
+ After a long wait, it's finally time to start working on a v1 rope system. v1 is how we describe the most minimal implementation of an idea to get something tested quick and early. This version of rope will allow players to deploy it down vertical drops where it will then mimic the behaviour of a ladder for others to climb. It will also support collecting to deploy elsewhere. 
+ Tested a very early version of the rope, barely a v1, but it worked as far as showing off the potential of what it's like to explore underground caverns where you can dangle a rope off deep ledges and rappel down into the dark below. Work now continues to polish up the gameplay for that actual v1.
+ Got a bunch of rope fixes done to get characters attached to the rope and facing the right direction. Just setting the actor position/rotation for now and later we can figure out animating them. Next big task is allowing characters to rotate around the rope.
+ Getting into the deep stuff now. Basic setup for rope locomotion is there, but the networking side is weak with client desync issues occurring during collision events. Time to do a deep dive into the Unreal Character Movement Component and the networking code.
+ After a long deep dive into the workings of the CMC we now have a rope climbing movement mode as well as a simple mantle off step. Lots to polish up, but the playtest went well with proving the networking portion stays in sync.  
+ Spent a day trying to debug an issue with a root motion animation not negating the animation offset. This took me on a journey of recreating the skeleton, rigging, skinning and fixing animations only to find that it was just an editor visualization setting and the animation was fine all along. Reverted a bunch of work, but gained new knowledge. 
+ Got a basic handle on setting up root motion animations with a working example of mantling up ledges and other heights. This should aid with player navigation and reduce the reliance on jump serving as a vertical climbing method as jump is meant to be more for crossing distances. 
+ Currently working on getting the camera to follow certain root motion animations when it makes sense. Working example is climbing on to rope from above, which requires the character to perform a 180 rotation onto the rope.
+ Playtest for mantle and rope climb went well for a first pass. Focus can now be put onto bug fixing and improvements to the ux. Players feels more dynamic now they can climb ledges, this might require more adjustments to the environment to ensure we don't start to see too much independence again and lose the group support dynamic. 
+ Though the rope climbing worked, when improving the climb onto rope root motion animation I found I had to do a good amount of rework to improve synchronization. Not perfect, but better now.
+ Spent more time on rope UX. The rope object can now be picked up, deployed and picked up again. Sorry to anyone currently hanging on for dear life, for now you fall.  
+ Updated the chamber generation system to use Unreal's fast tarray serializer to reduce replication overhead by sending delta updates.
+ Working on player inventory interface to improve ux for held, shouldered and attached items.
+ Started a push on updating existing systems to improve interactivity with other systems. First up is door/barriers. Rebuilding class in C++ and adding ability to be blocked by other objects or to deal crushing damage. 
+ Continuing with the barrier update. Most object interaction is handled now, barrier gets blocked by valid actor(s) in its path based on competing sturdiness values or actors get crushed. Next up is to do a host of character/barrier interactions.
+ Working on polishing up character's bracing barrier's open and handling all edge cases and resolve paths (Stopping brace action, stepping away from barrier, etc...)
+ Back from holiday. Spending the day playing and collating bugs as I get my head back into work mode. 
+ Created a trello bug board. Seems that we're at the point now where my manual bug lists are getting too long to keep track of so a more formal set up would help.
+ Wrote a trade economy design spec to act as part of the current progression gameplay experience goal. Incorporates a range of existing game elements such as item damage, rarity, such that it should help elevate their importance during play.
+ Commenced work on developing an economy subsystem class to handle trade systems. Updated the game item meta datatable to start to incorporate base economic data.
+ After last week's playtest we saw that object physics suffered a fair amount of desync, with a large delay when waiting for net correction. I spent the weekend (and today) rewriting a lot of the code to use  Network Physics with resim, so corrections can come in during a sim. Also rewrote how objects handle having their physics enabled and disabled during play.
+ Added further fixes and improvements to physics network sync and client prediction. Drop and Throw now multicast with replication data payload so clients can initiate their version of the state.
+ Getting a lot of crashes related to cleaning up physics objects on the client. Fighting Unreal to hunt out all the possible paths that can hit an object around level clean up.
+ Traced on crash that looks like it's coming from the engine and checking the source for 5.6 there's been updates to the area of the crash. Currently upgrading to 5.6.1
+ Upgrade to 5.6 did not resolve phys crash error. Implemented a different solution to cleanse all objects before triggering a map change to resolve the issue.
+ Spending the week doing bug fixing and polish. The backlog has built up and 5.6 added some new issues. Working my way up the trello board. 
+ Added a general fix player state solution that we can use to work around bugs to revert the player into a default state. We had many issues where players would get objects stuck in their hands or the UI stuck leaving them unable to play. The state fix works around this until we fix the bugs.
+ Reworked player sprint collision. Handles environment collisions that can redirect players, up to knocking them back for hard impacts. Collisions against objects and players pushes them based on their mass and the sprinting player speed & mass. The net result is Gnomes can be yeeted into the air by Giantkins. 
+ Added more player based collision events setup, including knock back from thrown objects. 
+ Updated player damage to incorporate resistances. Right now most damage is physical based. This opens up the door for using wearable items to increase resistances for better protection. Knock back events also take into consideration the physical resistance stat.
+ Hit an issue handling downed players where they continue to move after being downed (such as falling to the ground) which comes after their movement system has been disabled (no player inputs). This means that they get teleported back to the point where they initiated being downed instead of where they landed. Teleporting them to their final location has introduced a rotation deync issue that has proven a pain to resolve. I'm looking at alternate solutions in an attempt to stop fighting this one.
+ Resolved players teleporting after being revived. My first attempt at an overly complicated solution failed, thankfully, which led me to a simple solution. Mesh clipping with walls is still an issue.
+ VOIP has broken since upgrading to 5.6. Not clear why but there was a bunch of engine updates in that area. Investigating.
+ Fixed DiscordSDK issue that could fail to init on start and would never retry, effectively locking the game.
+ VOIP issue persists, possibly related to player block lists preventing comms within EOS.
+ Fixed issue where players could get stuck in rope climb movement mode but have their ability removed.
+ VOIP issue is fixed. Required rolling back to an old version of the EOS SDK. Still not clear on the cause, but I've wasted enough time on it that I need to move on.
+ Added a mouth component to player character's that animates based on voice input.
+ Added functions to manually animate mouth, calling from voice SFX like hit impact and pain. 
+ Investigating applying attribute modifiers from worn items (example: Helmet grants physical resistance bonus)
+ Wearables can now grant attribute modifiers, grant abilities, and lose tags (good for tag matching checks, material types, item themes/sets).
+ Started adding a new set of wearables, and increased number of wearable sockets on character.
+ Got burned by moving blueprints as we're currently storing hard references to them in player saves. Will add an asset manager and id references in future.
+ Reworked seed spitting fungi to launch projectiles instead of hitscan attacks.
+ Added giant seed spitting fungi to create a large scale area hazard that can cover a big chunk of an environment.
+ Fixed up and polished giant seed spitter after early feedback.
+ Investigating mantle issue.
+ Found some NaN issues in mantle checks causing players to mantle in place (dry hump the air) instead of fail out of mantle due to invalid location.
+ Investigating converting wielded items (torch) to wearables instead of leaving them as spawned attached actors. This is to unify the player outfit inventory more so we use mesh attachments rather than actors.
+ Added some Halloween twists to this week's skelve
+ Refactoring actors by pushing base information into the datatable entry, and storing only deltas on the actor as part of the now named equipment (was wearables) system.
+ Settled on a polymorphic datatable design that allows us to use small modules to define properties of items, so equippable things like helms can incorporate a module that defines those properties.
+ Added Data Registry and adding functionality to actors so they can pull in data dynamically from it.
+ Continuing work overhauling item/inventory system to work with new Data Registry setup
+ Slight change of strategy is requiring some extra work. Instead of letting clients access the Data Registry I'm going to replicate updates from the server. This requires the creation of small structs that I can use to replicate just the needed data per-update.
+ Went back on the last idea and instead let clients pull from the data registry, with the server validating and replicating critical data via GAS.
+ Working on getting the build packaging and ensuring all new data is included
+ Upgraded SQL server to record data resitry ids instead of actor class name.
+ Fixing health when item is spawned from server data.
+ Server now corrects health on spawn if there's a saved override.
+ VFX for damage now use GameplayCue to trigger instead of being hardwired to health updates.
+ Working on a solution for item actors that need child components, such as fire. 
+ World items and character worn items now use same solution for attaching extra components, allowing VFX, lights other logic to be attached to sockets. Still some bugs to fix, but it's a good milestone.
+ Adding anim montage set based on equipped item. 
+ Redesigned how animation poses work when equipping items using a new dataset of item classes which allows for setting up poses when equipping items in either hand and adjusting based on offhand, thus allowing mix and match.
+ With the new pose system in I'm refactoring all existing anim states such as carry object and lift object.
+ Tested the game with the new equip system in place. Some good discoveries of things still to update and bugs. Major update is to handle equipment based gameplay abilities, such as torch actions. Ability needs to know where torch mesh was spawned and it's shape so it can detect collisions.
+ Investigated store bought character models that have socket based mesh pieces to customize. It'll be a few weeks of effort to integrate them, but will allow to exploit the new equip system much more than the current sausage-like characters. Plus they'll look nicer on the eye. 
+ Planning out how to managed equipped item abilities such that there's a connection between the equipped elements (mesh+components), item attributes and ability action. Needs to handle having two of the same item equipped, such as a torch in both left and right hands.
+ Resolved abilities and equipped items by dynamically setting the action button based on where item is equipped.
+ Got sick.
+ Recovering slowly, working on some basic animations for equipped items.
+ Added a montage playback system for abilities that integrates with the new pose system so it can suppress poses. Added to torch attack.
+ Fixing torch not correctly spawning components when dual weilding torches
+ Basic torch fixes done. Trying to quickly get carry object and equipped item (in hands) working together.
+ Got a host of bugs from playtest to fix. The basic setup for carrying objects and dealing with equipped tools (Sheathing) is in but needs more attention.